
## Scottish Government Covid-19 Modelling

### Canna Model

The Scottish Government modelled the estimated impact of the Test and
Protect (T\&P) strategy using the [Canna
model](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-canna-model)
developed by the UK Government Department of Health and Social Care
(DHSC). The model estimates the reduction in transmission of Covid-19
due to Test and Protect by determining the proportion of all infectious
individuals undergoing isolation over the time course of their
infectious period.

The Canna model compares the observed values of R, obtained with both
symptomatic and asymptomatic testing and self-isolation of both
household and non-household contacts, with values of R obtained from two
modelled scenarios:

  - Full impact model: No T\&P and no self-isolation for individuals
    with Covid-like symptoms or their contacts, but other restrictions,
    e.g.Â social distancing, lockdowns etc., remain in place.

  - Counterfactual model: A counterfactual scenario with no T\&P, but
    all individuals with Covid-like symptoms self-isolate, without ever
    taking a test, along with their household contacts.

The difference between the observed and modelled values of R is
calculated for both models, and the marginal impact directly
attributable to T\&P is assumed to lie within these two values.
Symptomatic case detection and household contact isolation are
considered in both the full impact model and the counterfactual and are
major contributors to transmission reduction. Any additional marginal
impacts from Test and Protect come exclusively from non-household
contact tracing and asymptomatic testing.

The results from the Canna model have been considered internally by
Scottish Government and have not yet been published.

### Other Covid-19 Modelling

This model is one of a
[series](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Ac19-modelling+org%3ADataScienceScotland+fork%3Atrue)
used by the Scottish Government during the pandemic to model the spread
and levels of Covid-19 in Scotland. Many of the results of these models
have been published in the [Modelling the
Epidemic](https://www.gov.scot/collections/coronavirus-covid-19-modelling-the-epidemic/)
series of reports.

If you have any questions regarding the contents of this repository,
please contact <sgcentralanalysisdivision@gov.scot>.

### Licence

This repository is available under the [Open Government Licence
v3.0](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/).
